add xgsont FS XGS-ONU-25-20NI (#262)
hack-gpon/hack-gpon.github.io: _ont_xgs/ont-fs-XGS-ONU-25-20NI.md

* * *

> ## title: ONT FS.com

Reviewer: I'd probably rename this to show the model as well, like https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hack-gpon/hack-gpon.github.io/main/_ont/ont-fs-com-gpon-onu-stick-with-mac.md

Also, it's not showing up in the sidebar

Reviewer 2: fixed

This stick does not have a web console.
To configure it, you must log in via `UART` or `Telnet`.

| User | Password |
| --- | --- |
| `PON S/N` | `8digit HMAC-MD5 (PON S/N uppercase)` |

To generate a password, emulate CIG ONT in Linux QEMU and run GponCLI and execute the following command.
```
sudo apt-get install qemu-user
wget https://github.com/YuukiJapanTech/CA8271x/raw/main/emulate_CIG/GponCLI.tar.gz
sudo tar -xvcf GponCLI.tar.gz -C /emulate_CIG
ROOT=/emulate_CIG/root
sudo chroot $ROOT /bin/GponCLI
ONT> enable
#ONT> system/debug/md5 "your PON-S/N uppercase" 8
```

For example, if the SN is `GPON2350004b`, the user name and password would be

```
#ONT> system/debug/md5 GPON2350004B 8
MD5 Value: UzwugGYT
```

- User : `GPON2350004b`
- Password : `UzwugGYT`

UART does not ask for a login, it is possible to get a root shell without know the password.<br>

### ATTENTION

fscom Stick (`XGS-ONU-25-20NI`) does not have `PON S/N` on the label.<br>
(The S/N field stamped on the label is `fscom internal S/N`. **it is not** `PON S/N`)<br>

> The only way to get the `PON S/N` on fscom Stick is to check the boot Log from the `UART` !<br>

Author: Thanks!! I'm not familiar with the form implementation so I'll ask later. (Proceeding with other fixes first)
This is covered in detail in the ported source for reverse engineering, so I'll avoid publishing it on hack-gpon.

> The only way to get the `PON S/N` on fscom Stick is to check the boot Log from the `UART` !<br>

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/hack-gpon/hack-gpon.github.io/pull/262#discussion_r1292415230

| Optics           | SC/APC                                                                     |
| IP address       | 192.168.100.1                                                              |
| Web Gui          |                                                                            |
| SSH              | No                                                                         |
| Telnet           | ✅                                                                        |
| Serial           | ✅                                                                        |
| Serial baud      | 115200                                                                     |
| Serial encoding  | 8-N-1                                                                      |
| Form Factor      | miniONT SFP                                                                |

{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/front.jpg" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI front plate" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI front plate" %}
{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/internal.jpg" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI internal" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI internal layout" %}

## Serial

> The stick has a TTL 3.3v UART console (configured as 115200 8-N-1) that can be accessed from the SFP connector, but no components are mounted.

Reviewer 2: 3.3V

# Useful files and binaries

## Useful files and binaries

### scfg.txt
In the XGS-ONU-25-20NI ONT, the settings are loaded by four scfg.txt files.
For rewriting settings, `/userdata/scfg.txt` and `/tmp/scfg.txt` are used.

- `/config/default_scfg.txt`  (ReadOnly) <br>
Contains the manufacturer's default settings,<br>
which are read first at ONT startup and are the lowest priority settings.<br>
- `/config/scfg.txt` (ReadOnly)<br>
Contains settings set by the firmware creator,<br>
which have higher priority than default_scfg.txt and will overwrite the settings if there is a conflict.<br>
- `/userdata/scfg.txt` (RW)<br>
Contains settings set by the user or ISP.<br>
It has a higher priority than /config/scfg.txt and will overwritte the settings if there is a conflict.<br>
Can be edited and saved.<br>
- `/tmp/scfg.txt` (Can't Save)<br>
It contains dynamically generated settings based on values stored on its custom ROM (mtd9, mtd10)<br>
Since they are generated on tmpfs and cannot be saved directly,<br>
they are rewritten via the `#ONT> system/misc` command on the ONT.<br>

> The settings are overwritten and loaded at startup with the following priority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The settings are overwritten and loaded at startup with the following priority:
```

***(High)*** `/tmp/scfg.txt` > `/userdata/scfg.txt` > `/config/scfg.txt` > `/config/default_scfg.txt` ***(Low)***

### Misc Command
To configure settings using the MISC command, execute the following command.
```
#ONT> system/misc
#ONT/system/misc>
```

# Usage

## Login and Enable

> This stick does not have a web console.

Reviewer 2: Web gui not web console

To configure it, you must log in via `UART` or `Telnet`.

{% include alert.html content="FS.com Stick XGS-ONU-25-20NI does not have PON S/N on the label. (The S/N field stamped on the label is FS.com internal S/N. it is not PON S/N), The only way to get the PON S/N on FS.com Stick is to check the boot Log from the UART!" alert="Note"  icon="svg-info" color="blue" %}

> | User      | Password (Enable Password)            |
> | --------- | ------------------------------------- |
> | PON S/N   | 8digit HMAC-MD5 (PON S/N uppercase)   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| User                     | Password (Enable Password)                                 |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| ONU GPON Serial Number   | 8digit HMAC-MD5 based on Uppercase ONU GPON Serial Number  |
```

> | `PON S/N` | `8digit HMAC-MD5 (PON S/N uppercase)` |

Reviewer 2: please remove `

> You can use the following form to generate login credentials.

Reviewer 2: ```
You can use the following form to generate login credentials:
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the following form to generate login credentials:
```

{% include cig_password_xgspon.html password_len="8" %}

> Or following this externa file that [emulate ONT in QEMU](https://github.com/YuukiJapanTech/CA8271x), so use it at your own risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or you can follow this external documentation on how to [emulate the ONT in QEMU](https://github.com/YuukiJapanTech/CA8271x).
```

> UART does not ask for a login, it is possible to get a root shell without know the password.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UART does not ask for a login, it is possible to get a root shell without knowing the password.<br>
```

> UART does not ask for a login, it is possible to get a root shell without knowing the password.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
UART does not ask for a login, it is possible to get a root shell without knowing the password.
```

## Root procedure
After logging in via `telnet` or `UART`, you will first get the MiniShell with user privileges.

```
ONT>
```

The root MiniShell can be obtained by executing the `enable` command on this MiniShell.

```
ONT> enable
#ONT>
```

> can switch to the Linux root shell by executing the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then switch to the Linux root shell by executing the following command.
```

```
#ONT> system/shell
#ONT/System/Shell> sh
#
```

# GPON ONU status

## Get the operational status of the ONU

> Can check the ONT Registration State with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the ONU Registration State with the following command:
```

```
#ONT> traffic/pon/show onu

------------------------- ONU INFO --------------------------

Onu id 65535
sdThreshold:   0
sfThreshold:   0
TO1:   80000
TO2:   1
eqd:   0
Serial Number(vendor code): GPON
Serial Number(sn):          abcd1234
Password:                   30 31 32 33 34 353 36 37 38 39
Registration ID:           0x44454641554c540000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
------------------------- INFO END --------------------------

#ONT> 
```

> Can check the ONT operational status with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the ONU Operational State with the following command:
```

```
#ONT>traffic/pon/show link

 ----------------- LINK STATE -----------------
 Operation State Machine: INIT (O1)
 ----------------- STATE  END -----------------

#ONT>
```

## Get information of the OLT vendor

> OLT vendors are referenced from the MIB with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OLT information can be extracted from the MIB with the following command:
```

```
#ONT>system/mib/show 131
Table Oltg, Olt-g, total 1 instances

EntityID                  = 0x0000
VendorId                  = ""
EquipmentId               = ""
Version                   = 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
TimeOfDay                 = 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

#ONT>
```

## Querying a particular OMCI ME

> Can check the MIB info with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can browse the MIB with the following command:
```

```
#ONT> system/mib
#ONT/system/mib> 

```

### Show a list of MIBs supported by ONT

```
#ONT/system/mib> show
This command prints out the content of a mib table.
Usage: show CLASSID
CLASSID:
      the class ID of the ME, defined in 983.2/984.4, currently
the following MEs are supported:
ClassID  Name            Desc
256      Ontg            Ont-g
etc...
```

### Show a specific MIB

> For example, When displaying MIB256 (ont-g).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to display MIB 256 (Ont-g):
```

```
#ONT/system/mib>show 256
Table Ontg, Ont-g, total 1 instances

EntityID                  = 0x0000
VID                       = "GPON"
Version                   = 58 47 2d 39 39 53 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
SerialNum                 = 47 50 4f 4e ab cd 12 34
TraffMgtOpt               = 2
AtmCCOpt                  = 0
BatteryBack               = 1
AdminState                = 0
OpState                   = 0
OnuSurvivalTime           = 0
Loid                      = ""
Password                  = ""
AuthState                 = 0
OntState                  = 1

#ONT/system/mib>
```

### Dump of a MIB
Output a dump of mib to `/tmp/mibdump.txt`

```
#ONT/system/mib> dump
MIB is saved to the file /tmp/mibdump.txt.
#ONT/system/mib>
```

## Getting Speed LAN Mode

> Speed LAN Mode can check it from the `Status` column displayed by the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LAN Speed Mode can be verified from the `Status` column displayed by the following command:
```

```
#ONT>traffic/eth/show pack

build time Apr 26 2023: 06:23:15

-------------------- Line Pack -- PWR 0X0      --
Line Slot 10, NumOfPorts 1, type 49, subtype 75, state 2
-------------------- Configuration -------------------
port | enable | loop | Mode | RL Type | RL Us Rate| RL Ds Rate|
1       Yes     No      Auto            0       0       0

-------------------- Status -------------------
1) link state: Up, link mode: 2.5G Full

-------------------- Bridge Pack -------------------
Type:       75
State:      2
MAC Table:  0
MAC Aging:  0
MTU:        0
-------------------- Chip Data -------------------
eth Fd:         7
port Mask:      0x0018
type            28

********** DEBUG INFO **********
                 EmrLogId  : 5
               EmrAdminEn  : 0
              EmrbeInited  : 1
              EmrDumpConn  : 0
             EmrPwrShedEn  : 0x0
           EmrConnItemNum  : 0
         EmrUsDsReverseEn  : 1
       EmrConnAllVidCheck  : 0
      EmrMcastGemVlanOpEn  : 1
       gEmrSaveConnItemEn  : 1
      gEmrMcastCrossVlanEn : 1
    EmrUniExtractPriMatch  : 1
 EMR_DRV_PACK_DUMP_ITEM_EN : 0
********************************
#ONT>
```

# GPON/OMCI settings

> XGS-ONU-25-20NI ONT uses scfg.txt file and misc command for configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
XGS-ONU-25-20NI ONT uses `scfg.txt` file and misc command for configuration.
```

## Getting/Setting ONU GPON Serial Number
This setting must be set with the `misc` binary and the `eqsn set "GPONabcd1234"` command.
For example, if the SN like `GPONabcd1234` (`47504f4eabcd1234`) ,
```
#ONT/system/misc> eqsn set "GPONabcd1234"
```

The get command can also be used to retrieve the set PON S/N.
```
#ONT/system/misc> eqsn get
eqsn: GPONabcd1234
```

## Getting/Setting ONU GPON PLOAM password

> This setting must be set with the `misc` binary and the `exeep_w8 "0123456789"` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setting must be changed with the `misc` binary and the `exeep_w8 "0123456789"` command.
```

> For example, if the PLOAM password like `0123456789` ,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the PLOAM password is like `0123456789` ,
```

```
#ONT/system/misc> exeep_w8 "0123456789"
```

> The `exeep_r8` command can also be used to retrieve the set PLOAM password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `exeep_r8` command can also be used to retrieve the configured PLOAM password.
```

[20, 032] 00 00 00 00 ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[30, 048] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[40, 064] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[50, 080] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[60, 096] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[70, 112] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[80, 128] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[90, 144] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[a0, 160] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[b0, 176] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[c0, 192] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[d0, 208] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[e0, 224] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[f0, 240] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff 15 91 f3 9f     |  ............k
```

## Getting/Setting ONU GPON LOID

> This setting must be set with the **scfg.txt**, in the key `CHAR-ARRAY CFG_ID_LOID`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setting must be changed with the **scfg.txt**, in the key `CHAR-ARRAY CFG_ID_LOID`. 
```

> This setting must be changed with the **scfg.txt**, in the key `CHAR-ARRAY CFG_ID_LOID`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This setting must be changed with the `scfg.txt`, in the key `CHAR-ARRAY CFG_ID_LOID`. 
```

| Flash            | MX35LF1GE4AB 128MB                                                         |
| RAM              | 128MB                                                                      |
| CPU              | Taroko V0.2 (MIPS)                                                         |
| CPU Clock        | 500MHz                                                                     |
| Bootloader       | SATURN uboot                                                               |
| System           | Custom Linux by Cortina (Saturn SDK) based on Kernel 4.4 Saturn-sfpplus-r1 |
| 2.5GBaseX        | Yes                                                                        |
| XGMII/XSGMII     | Yes                                                                        |
| Optics           | SC/APC                                                                     |
| IP address       | 192.168.100.1                                                              |
| Web Gui          |                                                                            |
| SSH              | No                                                                         |

> | Telnet           | ✅ user `PON S/N`, password `8digit HMAC-MD5 (PON S/N uppercase)`         |

Reviewer 2: as already mentioned this username and password pair is not from telnet but is from enable, so it does not go here

| Form Factor      | miniONT SFP                                                                |

{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/front.jpg" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI front plate" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI front plate" %}
{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/internal.jpg" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI internal" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI internal layout" %}

## Serial

The stick has a TTL 3.3v UART console (configured as 115200 8-N-1) that can be accessed from the SFP connector, but no components are mounted.

The UART can be accessed by any of the following methods.
- Touch the needle to a specific point
- Shorting a specific pad to access from SFP

### Access from PCB
The UART can be accessed by connecting a wire or touching a needle to the following points.

{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/UART_needle.png" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART Touch point" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART Touch point" %}

### Access from SFP
By shorting these two points with solder, you can access the UART from SFP pins 2 and 7.

| USB - TTL Adapter     | SFP Connector (Molex, etc) |
| --------------------- | -------------------------- |

> | VDD (3.3V)            | pin #15 , #16              |

Reviewer 2: VCC? typo?

| TX                    | pin #7                     |
| RX                    | pin #2                     |
| GND                   | pin #10                    |

{% include alert.html content="USB TTL adapter may not work due to insufficient power supply. If possible, obtain 3.3V from the power supply device instead of the USB TTL adapter." alert="Note"  icon="svg-info" color="blue" %}

{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/UART_SFP.png" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART Short point" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART Short point" %}

{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/UART_bridge.png" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART solder bridge" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART solder bridge" %}

## Firmware is interchangeable with
The firmware is compatible with the following.

> - CIG XG-99S

Reviewer 2: the page for CIG and EICN aliases should be created in this PR and should be redirected to this one for the time being

Available from `#ONT/system>ontver build` and `#ONT/system/shell>cat /etc/version`.
- R4.4.20.016 (from FS.com docs)
- R4.4.20.018 - 20230426061821
- R4.4.20.022 - 20230612033149

## List of partitions

| dev    | size     | erasesize | name              |
| ------ | -------- | --------- | ----------------- |
| mtd0   | 00040000 | 00020000  | "ssb"             |
| mtd1   | 00002000 | 00020000  | "uboot-env"       |
| mtd2   | 00002000 | 00020000  | "dtb0"            |
| mtd3   | 0003c000 | 00020000  | "kernel0"         |
| mtd4   | 00300000 | 00020000  | "rootfs0"         |
| mtd5   | 004c0000 | 00020000  | "dtb1"            |
| mtd6   | 00300000 | 00020000  | "kernel1"         |
| mtd7   | 004c0000 | 00020000  | "rootfs1"         |
| mtd8   | 00001000 | 00020000  | "userdata"        |
| mtd9   | 00001000 | 00020000  | "mfginfo1"        |
| mtd10  | 00001000 | 00020000  | "mfginfo2"        |
| mtd11  | 00001000 | 00020000  | "uboot-env2"      |

This ONT supports dual boot. 

`kernel0` and `rootfs0` respectively contain the kernel and firmware of the first image, `kernel1` and `rootfs1` the kernel and the firmware of the second one.

# Usage

## Login and Enable

> {% include alert.html content="This is an external file ([emulate ONT in QEMU](https://github.com/YuukiJapanTech/CA8271x)), so use it at your own risk!" alert="Note"  icon="svg-info" color="blue" %}

Reviewer 2: ```
```suggestion
## Login and Enable

You can use the following form to generate login credentials

{% include cig_password_xgspon.html password_len="8" %}

Or following this externa file that [emulate ONT in QEMU](https://github.com/YuukiJapanTech/CA8271x), so use it at your own risk.

This stick does not have a web console.
To configure it, you must log in via `UART` or `Telnet`.

| User | Password |
| --- | --- |

> | `PON S/N` | `8digit HMAC-MD5 (PON S/N uppercase)` |

Reviewer 2: please fix the table

sudo tar -xvcf GponCLI.tar.gz -C /emulate_CIG
ROOT=/emulate_CIG/root
sudo chroot $ROOT /bin/GponCLI
ONT> enable
#ONT> system/debug/md5 "your PON-S/N uppercase" 8
```

For example, if the SN is `GPON2350004b`, the user name and password would be

```
#ONT> system/debug/md5 GPON2350004B 8
MD5 Value: UzwugGYT
```

- User : `GPON2350004b`
- Password : `UzwugGYT`

UART does not ask for a login, it is possible to get a root shell without know the password.<br>

{% include alert.html content="FS.com Stick XGS-ONU-25-20NI does not have PON S/N on the label. (The S/N field stamped on the label is FS.com internal S/N. it is not PON S/N), The only way to get the PON S/N on FS.com Stick is to check the boot Log from the UART!" alert="Note"  icon="svg-info" color="blue" %}

## Root procedure
After logging in via `telnet` or `UART`, you will first get the CLI with user privileges.

```
ONT>
```

The root CLI can be obtained by executing the `enable` command on this CLI.

```
ONT> enable
#ONT>
```

can switch to the Linux root shell by executing the following command.

```
#ONT> system/shell
#ONT/System/Shell> sh
#
```

> # GPON ONU status

Reviewer 2: question: since the sdk is the same (saturn modified by cig) how different are the commands from https://hack-gpon.org/xgs/ont-nokia-xs-010x-q/ can you generalise it into one page and then import it into all pages?

Author: good. It should be the same including gpon and xgs, so I think there is no problem in standardizing
 (only register_id is buggy and does not work well...)

Reviewer 2: Ok is a future things

- `/config/default_scfg.txt`  (ReadOnly) <br>
Contains the manufacturer's default settings,<br>
which are read first at ONT startup and are the lowest priority settings.<br>
- `/config/scfg.txt` (ReadOnly)<br>
Contains settings set by the firmware creator,<br>
which have higher priority than default_scfg.txt and will overwrite the settings if there is a conflict.<br>
- `/userdata/scfg.txt` (RW)<br>
Contains settings set by the user or ISP.<br>
It has a higher priority than /config/scfg.txt and will overwritte the settings if there is a conflict.<br>
Can be edited and saved.<br>
- `/tmp/scfg.txt` (Can't Save)<br>
It contains dynamically generated settings based on values stored on its custom ROM (mtd9, mtd10)<br>
Since they are generated on tmpfs and cannot be saved directly,<br>
they are rewritten via the `#ONT> system/misc` command on the ONT.<br>

The settings are overwritten and loaded at startup with the following priority.

***(High)*** `/tmp/scfg.txt` > `/userdata/scfg.txt` > `/config/scfg.txt` > `/config/default_scfg.txt` ***(Low)***

### Misc Command
To configure settings using the MISC command, execute the following command.
```
#ONT> system/misc
#ONT/system/misc>
```

> 

Reviewer 2: this should be said at the beginning if I am not mistaken in the template (or in AFM0002/3 page) there is a section userful file and userful binary

## Getting/Setting ONU GPON Serial Number

> This setting must be set with the **Misc command**.
> ### eqsn set "XXXXxxxxxxxx"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This setting must be set with the `misc` binary and the `eqsn set "GPONabcd1234"` command
```

 Write PON S/N.
 For example, if the SN like `ZTEG21100005` (`5a54454721100005`) ,
```
#ONT/system/misc> eqsn set "ZTEG21100005"

> ```

Reviewer 2: use GPONabcd1234 or similar

The get command can also be used to retrieve the set PON S/N.
```
#ONT/system/misc> eqsn get

> eqsn: ZTEG21100005

Reviewer 2: use GPONabcd1234 or similar

```

## Getting/Setting ONU GPON PLOAM password

> This setting must be set with the **Misc command**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This setting must be set with the `misc` binary and the `exeep_w8 "0123456789"` command
```

### exeep_w8 "xxxxxxxxxx"
 Write PLOAM Password (Registration ID).

>  For example, if the Loid password like `G01234567` ,

Reviewer 2: loid? typo?

```

> #ONT/system/misc> exeep_w8 "G01234567"

Reviewer 2: use a more simple ploam like 0123456789

[30, 048] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[40, 064] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[50, 080] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[60, 096] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[70, 112] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[80, 128] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[90, 144] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[a0, 160] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[b0, 176] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[c0, 192] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[d0, 208] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[e0, 224] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff     |  .............
[f0, 240] ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff - ff ff ff ff 15 91 f3 9f     |  ............k
```

## Getting/Setting ONU GPON LOID
This setting must be set with the **scfg.txt**.
### CHAR-ARRAY CFG_ID_LOID"
Define LOID.

> Add the following line to `/userdata/scfg.txt`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This setting must be set with the **scfg.txt**, in the key `CHAR-ARRAY CFG_ID_LOID`. 
For add Loid username we add the following line to `/userdata/scfg.txt`

```
CHAR-ARRAY CFG_ID_LOID = { 0xXX,0xXX,0xXX,0xXX, 0xXX,0xXX,0xXX,0xXX, 0xXX,0xXX,0xXX,0xXX, 0xXX,0xXX,0xXX,0xXX, 0xXX,0xXX,0xXX,0xXX, 0xXX,0xXX,0xXX,0xXX };
```

 For example, if the Loid like `0123456` ,
```
CHAR-ARRAY CFG_ID_LOID = { 0x30,0x31,0x32,0x33, 0x34,0x35,0x36,0x00, 0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00, 0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00, 0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00, 0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00 };
```

## Getting/Setting ONU GPON LOID password
This setting must be set with the **Misc command**.
### pon_passwd set "xxxxxxxxxx"
 Write Loid Password. (Max 20 bytes)

>  For example, if the Loid password like `0123456789` ,

Reviewer 2: same as before...

```
#ONT/system/misc> pon_passwd set 0123456789
```

The get command can also be used to retrieve the set Loid password.
```
#ONT/system/misc> pon_passwd get
eqsn: 01234567890000000000
```

## Getting/Setting OMCI hardware version (ME 256)
This setting must be set with the **Misc command**.
### eqvid set "xxxxxxxxxx"

>  Write hardware version. (Max 14 bytes)

Reviewer 2: same as before...

 
 For example, if the  hardware version like `TESTHW` ,
```
#ONT/system/misc> eqvid set "TESTHW"
```

The get command can also be used to retrieve the set  hardware version.
```
#ONT/system/misc> eqvid get
eqvid: TESTHW
```

## Getting/Setting OMCI vendor ID (ME 256)
This setting must be set with the **Misc command**.
### Vendor set "XXXX"

>  Write MIB OntG (256) Vendor Code.

Reviewer 2: same as before...

```

The get command can also be used to retrieve the set PON S/N Vendor field.
```
#ONT/system/misc> vendor get
vendor: ZTEG
```

In this ONT, the MIB OntG Vendor can be set to a value different from the S/N Vendor value.
example,
```
#ONT/system/misc> eqsn get
eqsn: GPON21100005
#ONT/system/misc> vendor get
vendor: ZTEG
```

# Advanced settings

## Transferring files to the stick
stick's busybox (Linux shell) supports netcast and tftp, which allow  to send and receive files.
```
# tar cf - localfile | nc remotehost-ip 10000
```

```
# tftp -r remotefile.bin -g remotehost-ip
```

## Backup of all partition
To obtain a backup, use the `dd` command to save it on /tmp,
or use the cat command to transfer it via netcast.
```
# dd if=/dev/mtdX of=/tmp/mtdX.bin
# tftp -l /tmp/mtdX.bin -r remotehost-ip
```

```
# cat /dev/mtdX | nc remotehost-ip 10000
```

When partition writing to the stick, use the flash command set.
(Do not write with the `dd` command because ecc is enabled)
```
# flash_eraseall /dev/mtdX
# flashcp -v targetfile /dev/mtdX
```

## Setting management IP
If want to change the management IP, use the `Misc command` to configure it.
### admin_ip set XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX

>  Write management IP.

Reviewer 2: same as before...

 For example, if the management IP like `192.168.100.2`,
```
#ONT/system/misc> admin_ip set 192.168.100.2
```

### admin_mask set XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX

>  Write management IP netmask.

Reviewer 2: same as before...

| Vendor/Brand     | FS                                      |
| Model            | XGS-ONU-25-20NI                         |
| ODM              | CIG                                     |
| ODM Product Code | XG-99S                                  |
| Chipset          | Cortina CA8271A                         |
| Flash            | MX35LF1GE4AB 128MB                      |
| RAM              | 128MB                                   |
| CPU              | Taroko V0.2 (MIPS)                      |
| CPU Clock        | 500MHz                                  |
| Bootloader       | SATURN uboot                            |
| System           | Custom Linux by Cortina (Saturn SDK) based on Kernel 4.4 Saturn-sfpplus-r1                                                   |
| 2.5GBaseX        | Yes                                     |
| XGMII/XSGMII     | Yes                                     |
| Optics           | SC/APC                                  |
| IP address       | 192.168.100.1                           |
| Web Gui          |                                         |
| SSH              | No                                      |

> | Telnet           | ✅ user `PON S/N`, password `8digit HMAC-MD5 (PON S/N uppercase)` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Telnet           | ✅    |
```
telnet dosen't have password, this credential are for the enable password

Reviewer 3: Telnet won't need a password when connecting, sure, but the user/password is immediately asked after connection, before the prompt is available.

Author: @simonebortolin 
Even with my Stick, login was requested when telneting. (And it wasn't required by enable)
Please let me know if the behavior is different, as it may be a different firmware.
```
telnet 192.168.100.1
Login as: aaa
Password:
Login incorrect
 - connection with the host has been lost. -
telnet 192.168.100.1
Login as: GPON2350004b
Password:UzwugGYT
ONT>enable
#ONT>
```

Reviewer 2: @alvgalrus @YuukiJapanTech yes but that is not the telnet password, it is the enable password which is common to ssh/telnet/serial, so for consistency with CIG GPON we do not put it there

| Serial           | ✅                                     |
| Serial baud      | 115200                                  |
| Serial encoding  | 8-N-1                                   |

> | Form Factor      | miniONT SFP                             |

Reviewer 2: please fomrat the table

{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/front.jpg" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI front plate" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI front plate" %}
{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/internal.jpg" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI internal" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI internal layout" %}

## Serial

This stick has UART pulled out to SFP connectors 2 and 7, but no components are mounted.<br>
Signal level is `3.3V TTL`<br>
Baud rate is `115200 bps`<br>

The UART can be accessed by any of the following methods.
- Touch the needle to a specific point
- Shorting a specific pad to access from SFP

> ### Touch the needle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Access from PCB
```

> This stick has UART pulled out to SFP connectors 2 and 7, but no components are mounted.<br>
> Signal level is `3.3V TTL`<br>
> Baud rate is `115200 bps`<br>
> 
> The UART can be accessed by any of the following methods.
> - Touch the needle to a specific point
> - Shorting a specific pad to access from SFP
> 
> ### Access from PCB
> The UART can be accessed by connecting a wire or touching a needle to the following points.
> 
> {% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/UART_needle.png" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART Touch point" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART Touch point" %}
> 
> ### Access from SFP
> By shorting these two points with solder, you can access the UART from SFP pins 2 and 7.<br>
> 
> TX : `2 pin`<br>
> RX : `7 pin`<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The stick has a TTL 3.3v UART console (configured as 115200 8-N-1) that can be accessed from the SFP connector, but no components are mounted.

The UART can be accessed by any of the following methods:
- Touch the needle to a specific point
- Shorting a specific pad to access from SFP

### Access from PCB
The UART can be accessed by connecting a wire or touching a needle to the following points.

{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/UART_needle.png" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART Touch point" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART Touch point" %}

### Access from SFP
By shorting these two points with solder, you can access the UART from SFP pins 2 and 7

| USB TTL(UART) Adapter | SFP 20pins Molex connector |
| --------------------- | -------------------------- |
| 3.3V                  | pin #15 and #16            |
| TX                    | pin #2                     |
| RX                    | pin #7                     |
| GND                   | pin #14 and #10            |
```

(please check 3.3V pin)

{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/UART_SFP.png" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART Short point" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART Short point" %}

{% include image.html file="XGS-ONU-25-20NI/UART_bridge.png" alt="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART solder bridge" caption="XGS-ONU-25-20NI UART solder bridge" %}

## Firmware is interchangeable with
The firmware is compatible with the following.
- CIG XG-99S
- CIG XE-99S (10G-EPON mode)
- ECIN EN-XGSFPP-OMAC v1

## List of software versions
Available from `#ONT/system>ontver build` and `#ONT/system/shell>cat /etc/version`.
- R4.4.20.016 (from FS.com docs)
- R4.4.20.018 - 20230426061821
- R4.4.20.022 - 20230612033149

## List of partitions

> | dev    | size     | erasesize | name              |

Reviewer: This table is showing up broken

| ------ | -------- | --------- | ----------------- |
| mtd0   | 00040000 | 00020000  | "ssb"             |
| mtd1   | 00002000 | 00020000  | "uboot-env"       |
| mtd2   | 00002000 | 00020000  | "dtb0"            |
| mtd3   | 0003c000 | 00020000  | "kernel0"         |
| mtd4   | 00300000 | 00020000  | "rootfs0"         |
| mtd5   | 004c0000 | 00020000  | "dtb1"            |
| mtd6   | 00300000 | 00020000  | "kernel1"         |
| mtd7   | 004c0000 | 00020000  | "rootfs1"         |
| mtd8   | 00001000 | 00020000  | "userdata"        |
| mtd9   | 00001000 | 00020000  | "mfginfo1"        |
| mtd10  | 00001000 | 00020000  | "mfginfo2"        |
| mtd11  | 00001000 | 00020000  | "uboot-env2"      |

This ONT supports dual boot. 

`kernel0` and `rootfs0` respectively contain the kernel and firmware of the first image, `kernel1` and `rootfs1` the kernel and the firmware of the second one.

# Usage

> ## Login Password

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Login and enable
```

{% include alert.html content="This is an external file ([emulate ONT in QEMU](https://github.com/YuukiJapanTech/CA8271x)), so use it at your own risk!" alert="Note"  icon="svg-info" color="blue" %}

This stick does not have a web console.
To configure it, you must log in via `UART` or `Telnet`.

| User | Password |
| --- | --- |
| `PON S/N` | `8digit HMAC-MD5 (PON S/N uppercase)` |

To generate a password, emulate CIG ONT in Linux QEMU and run GponCLI and execute the following command.
```
sudo apt-get install qemu-user
wget https://github.com/YuukiJapanTech/CA8271x/raw/main/emulate_CIG/GponCLI.tar.gz
sudo tar -xvcf GponCLI.tar.gz -C /emulate_CIG
ROOT=/emulate_CIG/root
sudo chroot $ROOT /bin/GponCLI
ONT> enable
#ONT> system/debug/md5 "your PON-S/N uppercase" 8
```

For example, if the SN is `GPON2350004b`, the user name and password would be

```
#ONT> system/debug/md5 GPON2350004B 8
MD5 Value: UzwugGYT
```

- User : `GPON2350004b`
- Password : `UzwugGYT`

UART does not ask for a login, it is possible to get a root shell without know the password.<br>

### ATTENTION

> fscom Stick (`XGS-ONU-25-20NI`) does not have `PON S/N` on the label.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FS.com Stick (`XGS-ONU-25-20NI`) does not have `PON S/N` on the label.
```

> (The S/N field stamped on the label is `fscom internal S/N`. **it is not** `PON S/N`)<br>

Reviewer 2: please use FS.com insted fscom and remove <br>

Onu id 65535
sdThreshold:   0
sfThreshold:   0
TO1:   80000
TO2:   1
eqd:   0
Serial Number(vendor code): GPON
Serial Number(sn):          2350004b
Password:                   41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 4a
Registration ID:           0x44454641554c540000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
------------------------- INFO END --------------------------

#ONT> 
```

Can check the ONT operational status with the following command.

```
#ONT>traffic/pon/show link

 ----------------- LINK STATE -----------------
 Operation State Machine: INIT (O1)
 ----------------- STATE  END -----------------

#ONT>
```

## Get information of the OLT vendor
OLT vendors are referenced from the MIB with the following command.

```
#ONT>system/mib/show 131
Table Oltg, Olt-g, total 1 instances

EntityID                  = 0x0000
VendorId                  = ""
EquipmentId               = ""
Version                   = 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
TimeOfDay                 = 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

#ONT>
```

## Querying a particular OMCI ME
Can check the MIB info with the following command.

```
#ONT> system/mib
#ONT/system/mib> 

```

> ### show
> Displays a list of MIBs supported by ONT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Show a list of MIBs supported by ONT
```

```
#ONT/system/mib> show
This command prints out the content of a mib table.
Usage: show CLASSID
CLASSID:
      the class ID of the ME, defined in 983.2/984.4, currently
the following MEs are supported:
ClassID  Name            Desc
256      Ontg            Ont-g
etc...
```

> ### show XXX

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Show a specific MIB
```

Displays the value of a specific MIB.
For example, When displaying MIB256 (ont-g).

```
#ONT/system/mib>show 256
Table Ontg, Ont-g, total 1 instances

EntityID                  = 0x0000
VID                       = "GPON"
Version                   = 58 47 2d 39 39 53 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
SerialNum                 = 47 50 4f 4e 23 50 00 4b
TraffMgtOpt               = 2
AtmCCOpt                  = 0
BatteryBack               = 1
AdminState                = 0
OpState                   = 0
OnuSurvivalTime           = 0
Loid                      = ""
Password                  = ""
AuthState                 = 0
OntState                  = 1

#ONT/system/mib>
```

> ### dump

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Dump of a MIB
```
